Starting this section and the next couple, we're going to start to look at the Docker client or Docker
CLI inside of our terminal a little bit more and learn about some of the very basic commands that we
use to interact with Docker containers and images.
Now, fair warning here.
Some of these sections are going to be a little bit boring because we're essentially just going to be
typing in commands and looking at the output that comes.
But I'm going to do my best to make sure to share a lot of interesting information with you along the
way.
So let's get to it.
The first command that we're going to look at is one that we ran very briefly before.
It is a command that we're going to use to run or to create and run a container using an image.
So at the command line, we're going to execute Docker run, and then the name of the image that we
want to use as the basis for this container.
Now we've already gone through this process once before at the command line we ran Docker Run Hello
World and then we saw that message appear on the screen.
Now using the knowledge that you now have about what a Docker container really is, I want you to think
about what probably just occurred when we ran that command.
Chances are that somewhere on our hard disk is an image that has that file system snapshot with one
single program inside of it.
Maybe that thing is called, I don't know, Hello World, who knows what it's really called.
So when we executed Docker Run Hello World, we took that little snapshot of the hard drive.
We stuck it into this little container thing or this kind of grouping of resources, and then we executed
the command run.
Hello World.
And so the running process up here was Hello World, that thing ran and then eventually exited.
So that's what is happening behind the scenes when you execute that command.
Now there's a lot of variations on this, a Docker run command and a lot of very small subtleties around
it.
So let's take a quick pause.
We're going to come back the next section.
We're going to start looking at some of the interesting features around the run command.
So I'll see you in just a minute.